New bart model card (#37858)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/bart.md

    ">
    <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
    <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
</div>

# BART

> [BART](https://huggingface.co/papers/1910.13461) is a model that mixes ideas from both BERT and GPT. It’s trained by messing up text in different ways like deleting words, shuffling sentences, or masking tokens and then learning how to fix it. As it learns to recover the original text, BART gets really good at both understanding and generating language. That makes it very versatile for tasks like summarization, translation, and text generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[BART](https://huggingface.co/papers/1910.13461) is a sequence-to-sequence model that combines the pretraining objectives from BERT and GPT. It’s pretrained by corrupting text in different ways like deleting words, shuffling sentences, or masking tokens and learning how to fix it. The encoder encodes the corrupted document and the corrupted text is fixed by the decoder. As it learns to recover the original text, BART gets really good at both understanding and generating language.
```

You can find all the original BART checkpoints under the [AI at Meta](https://huggingface.co/facebook?search_models=bart) organization.

> [!TIP]

> > Click on the BERT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply BERT to different language tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Click on the BART models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply BART to different language tasks.
```

> The example below demonstrates how to predict the [MASK] token with Pipeline, AutoModel, and from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to predict the `[MASK]` token with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.
```

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="fill-mask",
    model="facebook/bart-large",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device=0
)
pipeline("Plants create <mask> through a process known as photosynthesis.")

```
</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/bart-large",
)
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/bart-large",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa"
)
inputs = tokenizer("Plants create <mask> through a process known as photosynthesis.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits

masked_index = torch.where(inputs['input_ids'] == tokenizer.mask_token_id)[1]
predicted_token_id = predictions[0, masked_index].argmax(dim=-1)
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predicted_token_id)

print(f"The predicted token is: {predicted_token}")
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="transformers-cli">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<hfoption id="transformers CLI">
```

```bash

> echo -e "Plants create <mask> through a process known as photosynthesis." | transformers-cli run --task fill-mask --model facebook/bart-large --device 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo -e "Plants create <mask> through a process known as photosynthesis." | transformers run --task fill-mask --model facebook/bart-large --device 0
```

Author: Hey just wanted to know the reason for this, I tried to run this command but got an error "transformers: command not found" @stevhliu

Author: Hi @stevhliu just wanted to ask you about this.

Author: Hi @stevhliu just wanted some clarity on this, thanks.

Reviewer: Hey sorry, you can actually leave it as it is! This only applies to the `chat` command at the moment, and `run` will be updated later in the future.

Author: Sure no worries, so I'll leave it as is.

Author: Hi @stevhliu.
I think I have a doubt here. Do you want me to remove the '-cli' when you say I should leave it as is? If 'run' cmd will be updated in the future then wont the cli cmd not run right now?

```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

## Notes

> - BART is a model with absolute position embeddings so it’s usually advised to pad the inputs on the right rather than the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inputs should be padded on the right because BERT uses absolute position embeddings.
```

> - Models that load the facebook/bart-large-cnn weights will not have a mask_token_id, or be able to perform mask-filling tasks.
> - Bart doesn’t use token_type_ids for sequence classification. Use BartTokenizer or encode() to get the proper splitting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [facebook/bart-large-cnn](https://huggingface.co/facebook/bart-large-cnn) checkpoint doesn't include `mask_token_id` which means it can't perform mask-filling tasks.
- BART doesn’t use `token_type_ids` for sequence classification. Use [`BartTokenizer`] or [`~PreTrainedTokenizerBase.encode`] to get the proper splitting.
- The forward pass of [`BartModel`] creates the `decoder_input_ids` if they're not passed. This can be different from other model APIs, but it is a useful feature for mask-filling tasks.
- Model predictions are intended to be identical to the original implementation when `forced_bos_token_id=0`. This only works if the text passed to `fairseq.encode` begins with a space.
- [`~GenerationMixin.generate`] should be used for conditional generation tasks like summarization.
```
